artillery bombardment and shellings
continued overnight in Rafa and Israeli
forces remain in control of the main
border crossing with Egypt blocking most
humanitarian supplies while hospitals
run critically low on
fuel Palestinians were already facing
famine especially in the north but now
there's even less Aid getting in many
have fled to Central Gaza but only one
water station is working
there meanwhile the US president has
sent his strongest message yet to
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu Joe Biden said say he'll stop
the supply of weapons to Israel if it
launches an allout attack on
Rafa Yosi berin is a former Israeli
Minister of Justice he's joining us now
from Berlin thank you very much indeed
for being with us on Al jazer I want to
talk to you first of all about Joe
Biden's threat to pause weapons uh to
Israel this I if I understand it
correctly is going to affect future arms
deliveries but in real terms in your
assessment how much of a threat do you
think that actually is
well I I think that it is a message
rather than something very practical I
am not a military expert but I don't
believe that the daily activities in ra
or or somewhere else are dependent on
the the American delivery of
ammunition do you think that that um in
order to show a strong response to this
threat in inverted Commerce from Joe
Biden it could actually put push
Benjamin netanyahu's resolve to move
further into Rafa and perhaps more
strongly with a a a subsequent
significant loss of life simply to to
show that he will not be dictated to by
another
government no it's not a kindergarten I
don't think
so in terms of the the drive that
Benjamin Netanyahu has in order to push
forward um a move into Rafa how much of
that do you think is coming from him and
how much of it is being driven by the
farri co elements of his
Coalition well I I don't believe that we
are going to a kind of a zero some game
in this war or in any war between a
state and a
terrorist group or terrorist even Army
and I think that we should and we can
put an end to this uh War very very soon
by doing two things insisting on the
Israeli side insisting on the exchange
of prisoners of
hostages and on the other on the other
hand or additional to that to demand
that the pal the Palestinian Hamas
leadership will leave Gaza Israel cannot
afford it that Hamas will continue and
govern Gaza but it doesn't mean that we
have to continue this war forever and
kill innocent people on both sides it's
enough I mean it is a very long much
long longer than expected and as you
know in the history it happened in 82
when when Arafat was asked to leave
Lebanon with his leadership and he did
it and then things changed and and the
rest is history I think that here again
we should and we can insist on the on
the Hamas leadership to leave Gaza and
then a a
multilateral force of of Arab countries
and Others May rule Gaza Israel will
totally withdraw and this is I believe
the the most reasonable solution for the
problem I cannot tell you what what is
going to happen tomorrow in in Rafa or
in another place but it may be endless
and it is not helping each of any of us
in in the current situation in near
future in terms of in the event that
Hamas was not to have a role in the
future of Gaza obviously somebody would
have to have a role what would you what
structure would you see being put in
place that would be acceptable to all
sides well I don't know whether it is
going to be acceptable for all sides but
the Americans who are playing a very
important and positive role should
insist on it and I mean PLO this is our
partner with the PLO we signed the Oslo
agreement and all the other agreements
in the last 30 years the the Gaza Strip
was taken by
force when Hamas took it in June
2007 and until then it was the
Palestinian Authority which was in
charge on on Gaza and that should be the
case in the future but because of its
weakness I'm not sure that it is
possible I'm not sure that the
Palestinian Authority is ready to take
it upon itself right now so there is a
need for a a transitional period of a
year or two in which a as I said a
multilateral force will rule Gaza and be
in charge of of saving it and its
citizens and
help building it
again it's widely believed that Benjamin
nanahu supported albeit perhaps
unofficially Hamas being in power for
Gaza in Gaza for years because he didn't
want Israel to have that responsibility
and China's recently hosted talks
between fata and Hamas in order to try
to find some sort of Common Ground fata
being the political group behind the
Palestinian Authority it's going to be
difficult to find a way of unpicking
Hamas from Gaza from a region where at
least administratively it has had such a
strong hold for so long
first of all you are right I I think it
won't be easy and this is why I believe
that it is not a matter of of an ongoing
War about a political decision of the
Kamas leadership they can save
themselves and the the the Gaza STP if
they take such a an offer and then I
believe that there will be Israelis who
will say no we cannot let them live and
we should continue and and fight but
here it is going to be the American
World to tell them enough is enough and
now this leadership
regretfully Will Survive and go to
another place and I you are also right
in saying that Netanyahu preferred not
that he he he was supportive God forbid
Hamas but it was easier for him to deal
with Hamas and to allow them to get the
the the budget that they needed rather
than to deal with the PLO or the
fat the fatak Le PLO in order to get to
the two-state solution because he
doesn't want to partition the land and
that is his huge biggest mistake you
mentioned that there were two key
elements that as far as you could see
were were intrinsic to earing this
conflict one of course was agreeing an
exchange of prisoners the second one was
the role of Hamas as as we've talked
about the Hamas has already agreed that
there will be an exchange of prisoners
an exchange of of captives being held in
Gaza for prisoners uh in uh being held
in Israel so what is the fundamental
block do you see to the ceasefire
negotiations that are currently going on
in Cairo if those agreements have
already been reached by
Hamas I must say that I I read the Hamas
offer this is not a Nuance of the
previous offer by Egypt
and and C it is it is a new idea the the
idea is that the exchange of prisoners
is very blurry you don't know if you
read it carefully what is the number of
hostages that babies and old people and
others who they they are ready to to
release and and on the other hand it
means that Hamas continues to rule Gaza
and that is bad news I believe for all
of us or for all of us who believe in
peace y we appreciate it thank you very
much
indeed thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz